This is the first new city made in
America in I think quite a few decades.
That at least that's what I'm told. And
very cool name and it's named that
because it is the it is where we're
going to develop the technology
necessary to take humanity and
civilization and and life as we know it
to another planet for the first time in
the 4 and a half billion year history of
Earth.
[Applause]
So go with this little video here. This
is how it started off with basically
nothing. So start stra started off as
basically a
sandbar with
nothing. Even those little things we
built obviously
[Music]
That's the original sort of Mad Max
rocket. This is where you discover
light. Light lighting is very important
for that MadMax
rocket. So yeah, not that long ago there
was basically nothing here. And in the
space of about five or six years, thanks
to the incredible work of the SpaceX
team, we've built a small city and we've
built two gigantic launchpads and a
gigantic rocket factory for a gigantic
rocket. The cool thing is for anyone out
there who's watching this, you can
actually come and visit because our
entire production facility and launch
site are on a public highway. So, anyone
who comes to South Texas can come and
see the rocket pretty close up and see
the factory. Anyone who's interested in
seeing the largest flying object on
Earth can come here anytime they want
and just drive down the public highway
and see it, which is pretty cool.
So, then we
progress to where we are now, Starbase
2025.
So, we're now at the point where we can
produce a ship roughly every 2 or 3
weeks. Now, we don't always produce a
ship every 2 or 3 weeks because we are
making design upgrades, but ultimately
we're aiming for the ability to produce
a,000 ships a year. So, three ships a
day. So that's where things are now. I'm
standing in that
building. That's our hovercraft.
We're driving
booster down the road to the launch
site. You can see the mega
bays. And as I said, what's cool for
those out there watching this video is
that you can actually just literally
come here, drive down the road and see
it, which is the first time in history
that that's been possible.
So all this cool stuff you that that
that road on the left there, that
highway is public and you can just come
here and see it, which I recommend
doing. I think it's very inspiring to
see.
So that's our gigabay where we're
expanding integration to produce a
thousand starships per year.
Well, yeah, that hasn't been built yet,
but we're building it. That is a truly
enormous structures. This will be one
that'll be one of the biggest
structures, I think, by some measures,
the biggest structure in the
world, and it's designed for a thousand
starships a year. We're also building a
gigabay in Florida. So, we'll have two
facilities, one in Texas and one in
Florida.
It's actually difficult to gauge the
size of these buildings because you need
a kind of human for scale. When you see
how tiny a human is next to that
building, you realize just how enormous
it is.
So when we look at our build comparison
vehicles per year and you look at Boeing
and Airbus making airplanes, Starship
will be making at some point probably as
many Starships for Mars as Boeing and
Airbus make commercial
airplanes. So this is really at a scale
enormous scale. And each Starship will
have a
capability. It's it's each Starship is
bigger than a 747 or an
A380. Like it's truly
enormous. And then in terms of Starship
Starlink satellites, the version 3
satellites making on the order of 5,000
a year, maybe at some point closer to
10,000 a year. And those Sonic V3
satellites are each the size of roughly
a
737. So pretty
big. That compares to the B24 bomber in
World War
II. Now it's still small compared to
Tesla. So and Tesla will probably doing
double or triple that volume in the
future. So it just puts these things
into perspective that is it is actually
possible to build a vast number of
interplanetary starships. And even when
you compare things on the tonnage
standpoint, Tesla is still and other car
companies are still building far more
complex manufacturer tonnage than
SpaceX, which just really is a way of
saying that it's very achievable. Like
these numbers while they are insanely
high by traditional space standards are
achievable by humans because they have
been achieved in other industries.
Progress is measured by the timeline to
establishing a self-sustaining
civilization on Mars. That's how we're
gauging our progress here at Starbase.
So with each launch, especially in the
early days of Starship, each launch is
about learning more and more about
what's needed to make life multilanetary
and to improve Starship to the point
where it can be taking ultimately
hundreds of thousands, if not millions
of people to Mars. Ideally, we can take
anyone who wants to go to Mars and bring
all of the equipment necessary to make
Mars self sustaining so Mars can grow by
itself in a worst case scenario. getting
to the point where the fundamental fork
in the road for human destiny is where
Mars can continue to grow even if the
supply shifts from Earth stop coming for
any reason. At that point, we've
achieved
civilizational resilience where Mars can
potentially come to the rescue of Earth
if something goes wrong or maybe Earth
could come to the rescue of Mars. But
having two planets that are both self-
sustaining and strong, I think is going
to be incredibly important for the
long-term survival of
civilization. Any given civilization is
likely to last maybe 10 times longer,
maybe much longer if it is a multilanet
civilization than if it is a single
planet civilization because there's
always some chance that humans could do
something crazy like World War II.
Hopefully not, but it's possible. Or
there could be some natural event like
meteors or super volcanoes or something
that we don't expect. And then if we
only have one planet then that could be
curtains. But if we got two planets we
keep going and then we go beyond Mars
ultimately to maybe the asteroid belt,
the moons of Jupiter and beyond and
ultimately to other star systems and we
can be out there among the stars making
science fiction no longer fiction.
So in order to achieve this goal, we
have to make rapidly reusable rockets so
that the cost per ton to Mars is as low
as possible. That's essential. So for
that rapidly reusable rockets, I
said, it's actually four hours. It's
like a pirate R. It's like rapidly
reusable, reliable rockets is the key.
Now we've congrats to the SpaceX team on
making incredible progress on catching a
giant rocket.
[Applause]
So, it's really mind-blowing that
the SpaceX team has been able to catch
the largest flying object ever made
multiple
times using a very novel method of
catching it out of the air with giant
chopsticks.
[Music]
I mean, have you ever seen that before?
Congrats again. That was an incredible
achievement.
So the the reason we are catching it in
this way which has never been done
before is in order to make the rocket
rapidly reusable. If it were to land
with landing legs on a landing pad, we
would then have to pick it up, stow the
legs and put it back in the launch pad.
And that's quite difficult to transport
such a large thing. But if we catch it
with the same tower that it's used to
put it in the launch uh mount to begin
with, that is the best case outcome for
rapid reuse. So it literally gets caught
by the same arms that placed it in the
launch ring and then it is placed back
in the launch ring immediately. So in
principle, the super heavy booster can
be refflown within an hour of a landing.
It comes back in about five or six
minutes one way or another and then it
gets caught by the tower arms, placed
back in the launch mount, and then you
can refill propellant in about 30 to 40
minutes and place a ship on top of it
and in principle refly the entire
booster every hour, maybe every two
hours to give a little bit of extra
time. It's in the limit of rapid reuse.
And then the next thing we need to do is
catch the ship
too. So we haven't done this yet, but we
will. So that's what we hope to
demonstrate later this year. maybe as
soon as 2 or 3 months from
now. And then the the ship would be
placed on top of the booster and then
again re refilled with propellant and
flown again. With the ship takes a bit
longer because it's got to orbit Earth a
few times until the ground track comes
back over the launch pad. But the ship
is also intended to be refflown multiple
times per day.
This is the the new Raptor 3, which is
an awesome engine. Big hand to the
Raptor team for this. This is very
exciting.
[Applause]
So, Raptor 3 is designed to require no
basic heat shield, saving a lot of mass
on the bottom and actually improving
reliability so that if there is, for
example, a small fuel leak from the
Raptor engine, it will simply leak into
the existing flaming plasma and not
really matter. Whereas, a fuel leak when
the engines are contained in a box is a
very scary thing indeed. So this is a
Raptor 3. It'll take probably a few
kicks at the can, but it will be a
massive increase in payload capability,
in engine efficiency, and in
reliability. So this is really a
revolutionary engine. The Raptor 3 is
really, I'd say, kind of alien
technology rocket engine.
I mean even industry experts when we
showed a picture of the Raptor 3 said
that engine is not complete. So then we
said well here's the engine not complete
firing at a level of efficiency that has
never been achieved
before. So in order to make the engine
like that we had to simplify so many
parts of the design incorporate the
secondary fluid circuits and electronics
in the structure of the engine itself.
So everything is contained and
protected. It is a marvel of engineering
frankly. Then one of the other
technologies that's key for Mars is is
doing orbital propellant transfer. So
you can think of this like similar to
aerial refueling for airplanes, but in
this case it's orbital refilling of
rockets, which has never been done
before. But it is, you know, technically
feasible. Listen, you got to transfer
fluid somehow. There's no, this has got
to be
done. So, the two starships would get
together and one Starship would transfer
fuel and oxygen. And actually, most of
the mass is oxygen. It's almost 80%
oxygen that gets transferred, a little
over 20% fuel. And so, you send a
Starship to orbit that's full of
payload. And then you send up a bunch of
other starships and you would refill the
propellant on that starship. Once the
propellant tanks are mostly full, then
you can depart for the moon. So this is
an important technology which we should
hopefully demonstrate next
[Applause]
year. So then with the one of the
toughest problems to solve is the
reusable heat shield. No one has ever
developed a truly reusable orbital heat
shield. It's extremely difficult to do.
Even the shuttle's heat shield required
several months of refurbishment, fixing
broken tiles, testing each tile because
it's an extremely hard problem to
withstand the extreme heat and pressure
of re-entry.
The only things that can really
withstand this level of heat are
advanced sort of ceramics, basically
glass, aluminum, some types of carbon,
very little can survive without eroding
or falling off or cracking can survive
the stresses of re-entry. So this will
be the first time that a reusable
orbital heat shield is developed and it
needs to be obviously extremely
reliable.
So this will be something that we'll be
working on for a few years. I think to
keep honing the heat shield. It's a very
it is an achievable thing. So we're not
trying to do something that isn't
achievable. It is within the realm of
physics to get this done. Just an
extraordinarily difficult thing to get
done.
And Mars, the Mars atmosphere is carbon
dioxide,
which at first may seem better, but
actually it ends up being worse because
when the CO2 turns into a plasma and
you've got you actually end up with more
free oxygen entering on a Mars
atmosphere than on Earth atmosphere. So
Earth's atmosphere is only around 20%
oxygen and Mars ends up being basically
more than double that maybe triple that
when you consider when the the CO2
becomes a plasma and and you and you get
carbon and O2. So the that wants to
oxidize the heat shield basically burn
the heat shield. So that's why we we
tested very rigorously in a CO2
atmosphere because it's got to work not
just for Earth but also for Mars.
We want to use the same heat shield for
Earth that we use for Mars because there
are many other factors with the heat
shield such as making sure the tiles
don't crack or fall off or anything like
that. So, we want to have the same heat
shield structure, same material on Earth
as on Mars. So, we can test it hundreds
of times on Earth before going to Mars
and be confident that when it goes to
Mars, it will work.
So we developing some next generation
starships which
are have a number of improvements versus
our current gen. So, it's taller, for
example, and has a a
better inter kind of a the interstage
between the ship and the booster. When
doing hot staging, which is when we
light the ship's engines while the
booster's engines are still firing, the
the flame from the from the ship engines
can more easily exit through the the
open struts of the of the new
interstage. And in this case, we'll
bring the the struts interstage back
with us instead of throwing it
away.
So, a little more height here, 72 m from
around 69. Repellent capacity, I think
we'll probably push that up a little,
maybe 3,700 tons. Long term, my guess is
we're maybe around 4,000 tons and about
just over eight, you know, 8,000,
probably like 8,000 300. This will keep
getting up. My guess is ultimately we're
4,000 tons here, close to 10,000 tons of
thrust, but this is kind of the next the
next level or the next version of the
Super
Heavy. So, the booster will look a
little naked on the bottom because the
Raptor 3 engines don't require a heat
shield. So it look like it looks like
there's kind of parts missing, but
that's just because the Retro 3 does not
need a heat shield. So it's
just standing there in
a flaming
plasma, but it's a lot
lighter. Integrated hot
stage. I think it looks amazing.
And then the shift's a little bit
longer, a little more capable, moving to
1550 tons of propelling capacity. My
guess is this probably ends up 20% more
than this long term. You can see it the
heat shield is
sleeker, so much smoother
boundaries as the boundary of the heat
shield going to the leeward side is very
smooth. No more jagged tiles.
I think it looks very
sleek. So in this version we still have
six engines but a future version will
have nine but with the Raptor 3 again we
have reduced mass higher specific
impulse. The Starship version 3 is the
version that achieves all of the key
elements. I mean generally with any new
technology, it takes three major
iterations of any new technology to have
it really really work well. And this
with Raptor 3, with Starship and booster
version 3, it should be able to achieve
all of the things that I just mentioned,
which is a rapidly reusable, reliable
rocket with orbital
refilling. Basically, all of the
ingredients necessary to make life will
be achieved with version three of
Starship, which we're aiming to launch
for the first time at the end of this
year.
[Applause]
Yeah. So you can see this is kind of
where things are on the left where
things will be end of this year in the
middle and as I was saying kind of where
things will be probably longterm. Yeah.
142
m.
So, but the one in the middle will be
fully capable of doing Mars and
thereafter it'll be a lot of performance
improvements. As has been the case with
the Falcon 9, we always end up making
the rocket longer and increasing
payload.
So, that's the game plan. Pretty
straightforward. It's important to
emphasize even with the rocket that will
be launching just at the end of this
year, it will be capable of making life
multilanetary and thereafter it's just
about continuing to hone the efficiency
and capability of the rocket and reduce
the cost per ton and reduce the cost per
person to Mars and like I said
ultimately make it so that anyone who
wants to move to Mars and help build a
new civilization can do
so. So anyone out there, how cool would
that be? Even if you don't want to do
it, maybe you have a son or daughter who
wants to do that or a friend who wants
to do it. I think it would be the best
adventure that one could possibly do to
go and help build a new civilization on
a new planet.
[Applause]
So yeah, ultimately we'll have 42
engines
which it was inevitable as the prophecy
foretold by the great prophet Douglas
Adams in his book of the Hitchhog's
Guide to the Galaxy. The answer to the
meaning of life is 42. And so inevitably
the starship stack will have 42 engines.
[Applause]
And in terms of payload to orbit, what's
remarkable is that it's 200 tons of
payload to orbit with full
reusability. So this is twice the
capability of the Saturn 5 moon rocket.
The Saturn 5 moon rocket was fully
expendable. Starship is fully reusable
but will have twice the payload to orbit
of the next biggest rocket that made it
to orbit which is a Saturn
5. In fact, without reusability,
Starship would have about 400 tons of
payload to
orbit. So, this is a this is a very big
rocket is what I'm saying. But you need
a big rocket
to make life
multilanetary. Along the way, we could
do very cool things like have a moon
base like moon base alpha. The next step
after the Apollo program would be to
have a base on the moon. So you could
have a gigantic science station doing
research about the nature of the
universe on the moon would be very
cool. So in terms of like when can you
go to Mars? So you can go to Mars every
2 years or every 26 months. The next
Mars opportunity is at the end of next
year in about 18 months. November,
December is the next Mars opportunity.
We'll try to make that opportunity if we
get lucky. I think we'll probably have a
50/50 chance right now because we've got
to we've got to figure out orbital
refilling in order to have enough
capability to go to Mars. But if we
achieve orbital refilling in time, then
we will launch the first uncrrewed
Starship to Mars at the end of next
year. So this gives you an illustration
of how does a spaceship go from Earth to
Mars. So you got blue Earth there and
red
Mars. And I mean the actual distance
traveled on the ark is close to like a
thousand times further than the moon.
So you can't just go straight to Mars.
You have to create this elliptical orbit
with Earth at one point and Mars at the
other side at the far end of the ellipse
and then time where you are in that
ellipse to intersect with Mars. And this
so this is the orbital transfer how how
you do orbital transfer from Earth to
Mars. And if you look on your Starlink
Wi-Fi router, you'll see this image
because the Starlink internet is what's
being used to pay for humanity getting
to Mars. So, I just like to thank
everyone out there who is born Starlink
because you're helping secure the future
of civilization and helping make life
multilanetary and helping make humanity
a space bearing civilization. Thank you.
[Applause]
This is a tentative game plan here where
we're hoping to achieve where we
increase the cadence of flights to Mars
dramatically with every launch window.
So every roughly two years we are
dramatically increasing the number of
ships that go to Mars. Ultimately try to
get to a,000 or 2,000 ships you know per
Mars rendevous. as a rough order of
magnitude. This just guesses obviously,
but we need to get about a million tons
is my guess to the surface of Mars to
make a civilization on Mars
self-sustaining and get to that critical
point where if the resupply ships from
Earth stop coming for any reason, Mars
still succeeds. Mars can still grow. And
so, you can't be missing anything. You
can't be missing even like the
equivalent of vitamin C or anything.
You've got to have everything you need
for Mars to grow. So, my guess is that's
about a million tons, but it might be 10
million tons. I hope it's not 100
million tons. That'd be a lot, but we
want to try to get to that point and
secure the future of civilization as
quickly as
possible. So, we're looking at different
locations. The lead candidate right now
is the Arcadia region. Mars has a lot of
real estate, but when you combine all of
the factors and say, "Okay, we can't be
too close to the poles. We need to be
near ice water, and can't be too
mountainous for the rockets. Then it
narrows down to a smaller region. So
Arcadia is one of my my daughter's name
is Arcadia actually and is one of the
options. So we got the first starships
on Mars, gather critical data. So the
first flights there we'll send with the
Optimus robot so we can go out there and
explore and kind of prepare the way for
humans. And that'll be a very cool image
if we're able to achieve it by launching
end of next year. It would actually
technically arrive in 2027, but that
would be an epic fure to see Optimus
walking around on the surface of
Mars. And then with the launching two
years later, we would be sending humans
assuming the first missions are
successful and they land successfully,
we'd send humans on the next mission and
we really start building the
infrastructure for Mars.
So anyway, might maybe just to be safe,
we might just do two two landing
episodes with the Optimus and do the
third one with humans. We'll
see. So that that classic picture of the
workers on the Empire
State and then for communications on
Mars, we'll be using a version of
Starlink to provide internet on Mars.
Yeah. So the speed of light even at
moving at the speed of light your best
case scenario is I guess I think around
3 and a half minutes to Mars and then
worst case is 22 minutes or more because
Mars is on the other side of the sun
from Earth.
So anyway, it's quite challenging to do
high bandwidth communications with Mars,
but Starlink will achieve
that. Yeah. And then we'll have the
first humans lay the groundwork for
permanent presence on the surface. And
yeah, the goal, like I said, will be to
make Mars self-sustaining as quickly as
possible.
This is just a sort of rough idea of
what things will be like for the first
city on Mars. My guess is we'll probably
put the launch pads a little further
away or the landing pads just in
case. But for Mars, we're going to need
a lot of solar power. You can't really
walk around on the surface of Mars, at
least as yet, until Mars is terraformed
to be like Earth. the you you need to
walk around with a Mars suit and be
initially in kind of like glass domes,
but it would work and eventually we can
make Mars into an Earthlike
planet. And we want to get to the point
where we're transferring over a million
tons at every Mars transfer window. And
then we that's like a serious
civilization, a megaton per transfer
window.
So yeah, it would have a lot of
spaceports. I mean, because of the fact
that you can't fly there continuously
and you have to transfer in these
windows, you'd have a gathering of a
thousand ships or 2,000 ships or more
than that. So we look have this kind of
like battle star galactica field where
all these ships are in orbit waiting to
depart and look, I think an amazing
image of all these ships departing at
once. And then you're going to need
obviously a lot of launch pads, a lot of
landing pads on Mars or you'll need to
move the ships off the landing pad
pretty fast. You got a few thousand
ships inbound. Probably need at least a
few hundred landing pads. Anyway, we'll
solve that problem
later.
So, yeah, this is like an incredible
thing to have like this amazing city on
Mars. the first city on another planet,
a new
world. And it's also an opportunity to,
I think, for the Martians to
rethink how they want civilization to
be. So you can maybe rethink like what
kind of form of government do you want?
What new rules do you want to have?
There's a lot of freedom and opportunity
in Mars to do a recompile on
civilization which will be up to the
Martians. So, all right, let's get it
done. Thank you everyone.
[Applause]